[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
Since she was 15 years
old, John Greenewald Jr.
has been accumulating all
kinds of documents related
to UFOs and possible
UFO visitations
that the government has had.
He's accumulated them and
put them into his website
called The Black Vault. John,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>JOHN GREENEWALD:
Thank you, George.
Good to be here.
>>NOORY: How did a
little 15-year-old
get involved in
doing all of this?
>>GREENEWALD: You know, I wish
I had a better answer for you.
It was just simply curiosity.
As a 15-year-old kid, I wanted
to know what was out there.
And at the time, I wanted
to see what was online.
The internet was, kind
of, in its budding stages,
but I used the search engine,
looked for UFO information,
and found the same
stories over and over.
And I thought, well, this
isn't working for me.
I wanted to know what the
government connection was.
I taught myself how to use the
Freedom of Information Act,
and here we are,
nearly 21 years later.
>>NOORY: So you didn't
do any hacking, did you?
>>GREENEWALD: No,
no, it was all legal,
And that's what-- most of
the people that walk around
everyday don't realize
that we can access
this information legally.
We don't need to do
anything illegal,
hack, or get something
leaked to us.
Sometimes, the truth is
stranger than fiction.
And what I mean by
that is, the government
will actually give
you information.
You don't need to believe some
computer hacker in Bulgaria
that got this information.
This is something that the
CIA or the NSA or whomever
will actually hand to you.
>>NOORY: Once you started
getting the information,
were you surprised about this
UFO-government connection?
>>GREENEWALD: I
was very surprised.
The big picture, you'd think,
with the US government--
they're going to
deny everything,
or there's just simply
nothing to be found.
On the contrary, there were
thousands of pages to be found,
and those thousands of pages
were detailing UFO sightings
that-- here we are, well
into the 21st century--
we cannot explain.
Now, some were from the
'40s, '50s, and '60s,
and that's all interesting.
But what fascinated me was stuff
from the '70s, '80s, and '90s,
the stuff that came well after
the United States military
said we investigated these
things and found nothing.
There's nothing there.
Move along.
And yet, behind the scenes,
the Freedom of Information Act
has told us, there is a lot more
that they don't want us to see.
There's a lot more going
on behind the scenes
that they just simply
do not talk about.
But the documents will tell us.
>>NOORY: Were some of these
documents blacked out,
so you're reading them,
and you're coming up
to some great material,
and then, all of a sudden,
it's all blacked out?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, yeah.
And In some cases
you get entire pages
that are blacked out--
literally, top to bottom.
It's like, why cut down the tree
to send these documents out?
>>NOORY: Why send them out?
Yeah!
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
Now, some agencies
don't, but others do.
And you get these
things, and they're
blacked out from top to bottom.
That's a pretty amazing find on
a topic that's, quote unquote,
easily explainable or a
phenomenon that doesn't exist.
Now, sometimes,
you'll find names
or personal identifying
information,
and that's exempted through
the Freedom of Information Act.
And that's something you
commonly see blacked out.
That's fine.
But what I'm talking
about is literally
big paragraphs, big
chunks of information that
are just completely omitted.
That's a threat to
national security.
If they said, well,
here, George, we
want you to read
this, that would be
a threat to national security.
So then, I ask
the question, what
is that threat to
national security
when you're talking
about the UFO phenomenon?
Again-- a phenomenon
that shouldn't exist.
>>NOORY: In your opinion, is the
UFO-government situation still
continuing?
Are we still probing and
investigating these cases?
>>GREENEWALD: I think so.
I think there's still a
behind-the-scenes interest
in this material.
I discovered a United States Air
Force manual, the same agency
that loves to say, we
investigated these things,
and there's nothing to find.
A US Air Force manual that
had black-and-white proof
that they were still
collecting UFO reports.
Now, when I got a major
mainstream media organization
to do a story on this, and they
made a phone call to the US Air
Force and inquired
about this manual--
it's called Air
Force Manual 10-206--
>>NOORY: Gosh, you
know 'em all, John.
>>GREENEWALD: Well, this
was a big one for me.
I couldn't forget this one,
because unidentified flying
objects was, again,
black-and-white in this thing.
And the Air Force did not
call this media agency back.
And after two days, I get
a call from the journalist
who was doing this story.
He goes back on, and not only
did I have the documents,
but I actually showed him how to
download it from the Air Force.
So if you can believe it, it was
like hiding it in plain sight.
This was proof that they
were investigating UFOs.
He goes back to
download it again,
because he was
finishing up the story,
and the manual was
completely changed.
He calls me.
I thought he made a mistake.
I go on, and sure
enough, within 36 hours
of his initial inquiry,
the United States Air Force
completely removed the entire
chapter on UFOs, rewrote it,
and it was something
else entirely.
And I did subsequent
FOIA requests
to try and figure
out what happened.
They truly did change it
within 36 hours of the media
asking the question.
It was like they covered it up.
Their official explanation
was, it was a coincidence.
Now, what are the odds?
>>NOORY: Now, we know there
are no coincidences, John.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
And plus, this is the
United States military.
The United States government
does not do things quickly.
So for them to do this
on the fly like that,
that's a pretty big coincidence.
I think that they
knew that there was
going to be a profile on this.
It was irrefutable
proof they were lying--
>>NOORY: They
didn't think anybody
would spot it or see it.
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
But now we did, and they
thought, OK, well, we've
got to cover this up.
And they took it out and claimed
that it's no longer there.
They had multiple
opportunities to remove that.
Some might say, well,
it was a coincidence.
But actually, there's-- like
you said-- no coincidences.
They had multiple
opportunities to revise it,
and they would revise the
manual, but UFO stayed in it.
They only removed it when
the media asked the question.
>>NOORY: Are there newer cases
still coming and new documents
still forthcoming?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
Over the years, it's
been a little bit harder,
because I've tackled nearly
every agency out there--
arguably, all of them
trying to find information--
>>NOORY: Including the
Forestry Service, right?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, and that was
one agency that actually just
came out with some
UFO-related documents.
It was an agency I had
never really hit before.
>>NOORY: Who would
even think about that?
>>GREENEWALD: I really
thought it was a long shot.
I didn't expect anything.
I filed a FOIA request.
And sure enough, I
get this response.
I opened it up, and there
were color photographs
of a UFO sighting.
And that's very rare.
>>NOORY: Really?
What did it look like?
>>GREENEWALD: Well, it's,
kind of, what you see.
When somebody reports a UFO and
they have a cell phone video
camera or something
like that, where
they take a picture of
an object in the sky--
the story was very similar
to what you read today, where
they were not out hunting UFOs.
They were simply camping.
And they were out, and they
took a photograph of one
of the people sitting
on a rock, got back,
downloaded the digital
photos to their laptop,
and behind them was
this UFO in the sky.
And they sent it to
the Forest Service.
What I can't really deduce is if
this was a civilian or possibly
a forest service personnel--
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
They don't say.
They don't write that down.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, because
they black it all out.
So it's a little bit hard
to figure that part out.
But obviously, they're taking
these things seriously.
There are craft in the sky
that they just can't identify,
whether it be in a
major booming city
or whether it be in
a forest somewhere.
These things are
being seen everywhere,
and seemingly, the government
is taking it seriously.
>>NOORY: Based on looking
at these documents,
since you were 15
years old, have
you come to your own conclusions
on just what's going on?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
I very much approach
it with what
I call the common sense way.
You know, I, kind of, step
to being a full believer.
So in my step
process, I think it's
very easy to determine that
the UFO cover-up is real,
and it's going on to this day.
This is not something that
goes back five or six decades.
This is something that the
military and the government
do not want us to know
about, even to this day.
And I think that's a conclusion
that I can safely draw.
Is it alien-related?
That's a big one.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>GREENEWALD: I'm
the type of person,
personally, that needs
to see to believe.
I've never seen an
alien, so I don't know.
>>NOORY: You're not
from Missouri, are you?
>>GREENEWALD: I'm
not. (CHUCKLING) No.
But you have to draw
your own conclusions
from these top-secret records.
And in my personal
opinion, the phenomenon
is real, whatever it may be.
The cover-up is undeniable.
Because I mean, I could bore
you to death for hours and hours
on these thousands
of pages that prove
that that cover-up is real.
But then, the question is, why?
Because if it's top-secret
military aircraft or something
we can easily
explain, skeptics love
to say, oh, that's testing
new aircraft here, there,
or whatever.
That's fine.
But the military itself
would be able to identify it.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GREENEWALD: When I
request information
on unidentified flying objects,
the material that comes up
is unidentified to the
military and the government.
That's undeniable.
So the question mark is,
what is it, alien-related?
You start tackling every
explanation possible.
That's one of the
only ones that's left.
>>NOORY: How do you
know that you're
getting the information
you've requested?
How do you know they're
not holding back documents?
>>GREENEWALD: It's
blind trust and faith.
>>NOORY: Well, what
does that tell you?
>>GREENEWALD: That's right.
And you're dealing with the
government and the military.
And time and time
again, they've been
proven to either make
an oops mistake or lie,
however you want to label it.
But they overlook things,
they make mistakes,
they claim certain
things don't exist.
And as a citizen,
I can't just say,
well, I think you're
lying, so look again.
I can appeal their decision,
meaning, if they say,
well, we've got nothing
on this, I can appeal it.
But I have to have
grounds for an appeal.
If I just say, well,
I think you're lying,
they're not going
to do anything.
So you have to have a little
bit of trust and faith
that whomever is processing your
request on the other side is
actually doing their job.
>>NOORY: Yet--
>>GREENEWALD: That's
tough sometimes.
>>NOORY: Yet some
of the documents
will merely disappear, like
they did at an Air Force base.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- On August 1st, 1965, a
dramatic large-scale UFO
incursion took place at F.
E. Warren Air Force Base
in Wyoming, as this
declassified report confirms.
Dozens of sightings of
disc-shaped craft cavorting
at low altitude over Minuteman
missile silos known as launch
facilities, were reported
by the Air Force security
personnel guarding them.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: That was dramatic,
as all get-up, John.
My God.
What was it?
>>GREENEWALD: That's
a big question.
And you've got not only
this particular case
but quite a few others
where UFOs appear
over nuclear installations.
They seemingly interact
with the silos.
Sometimes, there
are eyewitnesses
stating that whatever
these UFOs are,
they're strategically
shutting down--
>>NOORY: And they're
good eyewitnesses, too.
>>GREENEWALD: And they're good.
They're reliable.
And you look at
that, and you realize
there is a connection,
whatever it might be,
between these UFO cases
and nuclear installations.
And in the process of, kind of,
thinking through a little bit
of all of these past
cases, I thought
to fire a Freedom
of Information Act
request to what's called the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
or the NRC and ask them--
>>NOORY: That's the watchdog.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly--
to see what kind
of UFO information,
if any, they had.
Because if there was
this UFO connection,
that would be the place to go.
And to my surprise, I
got a stack of documents
just in the last
couple of months,
where they detail one
particular security guard.
He recalls, in the late 1980s,
at Cooper Nuclear Station,
he saw a UFO come down.
He watched it for a
short period of time
and had an eyewitness with him.
He goes back and tells
the other security guards.
They laughed at him and said,
no, you didn't see that.
There's no way.
Well, to his surprise, he
went out the next night
and, sure enough,
it was there again.
And he saw the
UFO a second time.
He goes in and he gets
all those guys that
laughed at him,
brought them all out,
and sure enough, they
then all witnessed it.
>>NOORY: They weren't
laughing anymore.
>>GREENEWALD: They
weren't laughing anymore.
And so he sat on this.
He did not report it at all.
And just in the last
5, 6 years, he decides,
OK, I should make
a report of this.
And he goes back to the NRC.
He's retired.
He goes back to the
NRC and actually makes
an official report.
Now, this day and age,
again, the company line
is that the UFO
phenomenon doesn't exist.
UFOs aren't real, and
the agencies do not care.
>>NOORY: Yet, there
are the reports.
>>GREENEWALD: And
yet-- there you go.
And the NRC took his
report seriously.
They sent it to
the nuclear station
on a need-to-know basis.
They said, do not
circulate this report.
Only give it to those that
have a need to know, which--
why would you have that kind
of stipulation on something
like this--
that happened 20, 25 years ago?
And there, the report
went off to the station.
No follow up, no response-- at
least, none that they gave me.
But this was a brand
new UFO experience
and case where it had
never been released before,
and it came out straight from
the United States government.
So whatever that connection
is, it's still a question mark.
But you can definitely see
a connection between UFOs
and these nuclear stations.
>>NOORY: Aren't some of
these missile silos shut down
by the UFOs?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>GREENEWALD: The UFOs seemingly
will shut these silos down
and will turn them
off, so to speak,
where, then, our
nation's biggest defense
system, our most powerful
defense system, goes offline.
Now, whatever these
UFOs are, that's
a pretty amazing
piece of strategy
to have at your disposal.
So what are these UFOs?
Who are they?
Are they another country that's
now capable of coming here?
Do they have technology
that we're not aware of?
>>NOORY: I don't think
it's another country.
>>GREENEWALD: I don't
think so either.
But you have to tackle
that possibility--
>>NOORY: Well, you
have to rule it out.
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
But you start realizing,
OK, common sense tells us,
there is no country close to
having that type of technology.
And if they did, they wouldn't
be in the heart of America.
>>NOORY: Well, there
are some people
who theorize that these are
coming from the inner planet,
from a very advanced race of
humans who live down there.
>>GREENEWALD: That's
a possibility.
I mean, all things are possible.
It depends on what kind of
story you want to follow.
I mean, I'm along
the belief system
that if these things are
not us, meaning humans
that live on the
planetary surface,
then it's out there somewhere.
And the question mark is,
why are they coming here,
and what are they looking for?
Is it a coincidence that they
are found above nuclear--
>>NOORY: No coincidences.
>>GREENEWALD: No coincidences.
So you have to use common
sense and say, OK, well,
what are they doing here then--
>>NOORY: And why.
>>GREENEWALD: --and why.
And that's a tough
question to answer.
>>NOORY: You've, kind of,
made an evolution also
into television production.
Tell me about that
metamorphosis.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
Well, I have a lot of
fun being on camera.
I started when I was very
young, being interviewed
for the History Channel
and Discovery Channel type
networks.
But I fell in love with the way
television was made, you know.
And I think I was 18 when I
first did my first interview.
And not to be cheesy
about it, I just
loved everything-- the
camera, the lighting.
You know, there was a
sense of magic to it.
And to most viewing
audiences, they
know there's a magic
there, but that's
about as far as their
interest grows--
>>NOORY: Well, it's exciting.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
I wanted to actually
do it and make it.
And so I started creating
shows for History Channel.
That was my first big
run-- and to my surprise,
selling the idea as though
we were coming up with.
And so I got to be a
producer and worked my way up
as a supervising producer,
director, writer--
whichever comes my
way-- janitor if that--
>>NOORY: You'd do
whatever you have to do.
>>GREENEWALD: Whatever--
I just love working,
so it's a fun ride.
>>NOORY: Well, I get so much
recognition now, not only,
obviously, from the radio
show, but the History Channel's
Ancient Aliens and
now, Beyond Belief.
People just can't get
enough of this material.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
The UFO topic to
society this day
and age-- and the alien
question-- is huge.
Arguably, it's one of the
biggest and most popular
topics out there.
I've got almost 1.6 million
pages of declassified documents
on nearly every--
>>GREENEWALD: It's
a huge amount.
But I tackle every
government secret
you could possibly imagine.
UFOs has by far been
number one since day one.
There is an interest
within society
of this topic that
just does not go away
and arguably has
grown over the years.
And that's why it's fun for
me to work on television
shows behind the scenes.
I mean, I have fun on camera,
but behind the scenes,
to actually make it, write
it, and give it to the public
so they can learn
something new--
that, to me, is why I do it.
>>NOORY: One of your projects
is called "Unsealed Conspiracy
Files."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Roswell-- Roswell,
New Mexico--
a small desert town,
home to the men and women
of Roswell Army Air Field.
In early July, 1947,
troops from the base
are sent to investigate
mysterious wreckage reported
in the hostile desert.
Allegedly, the site is
quickly secured, but not
before soldiers, firemen, and
local residents reportedly
see what appears to be a downed
alien craft and its occupants,
dead.
But are the stories true?
>>GREENEWALD: Just
after the wreckage
was found in
Roswell, New Mexico,
the military came out
and said that they
had captured a flying saucer.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So John, tell me about
Unsealed Conspiracy Files.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
Well, it was a fun
show to work on.
I went in on season one.
Obviously, I ended up
on camera, but I just
went in as a writer to help out.
I've done a lot of
these UFO-type programs.
And I had a blast
with season one.
And when they were
figuring out, after I'd
written a lot of the
episodes, who they were going
to put on camera, one of
the executive producers
said, you know what?
We think you would be
one of the guys that
would be perfect for this.
They asked me to be on, and you
know, the rest was, kind of,
history.
They did, about,
five seasons of it.
We had a blast every
season, and I think
they're done at least for now.
I know that you can
view it online and--
>>NOORY: Some of them
have a life to it.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
But again, it shows that
people just have this interest.
And what was fun about Unsealed
versus a lot of the other shows
that you see on
television now is
that it was a lot less reality
and more so just storytelling.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GREENEWALD: Now, I've
worked on reality television,
and I'm not going
to trash it, but I
would like to see a lot
more of that storytelling,
because I think that's
what people want.
You know?
Sometimes, UFO
research is just not
that exciting to be
in the moment with us
as we're doing it.
But at the end of the
line, the end of the story,
that's the interesting
part, and that's
what I think we need
a little bit more
of in television--
and conversations
like this with Beyond Belief,
where you don't have the fluff.
You just have dialogue,
ask those questions,
and sometimes, maybe have a
few answers along the way.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
get to a point where
you think Hollywood or
Hollywood producers are fudging
UFO information
because the government
might be pressuring them?
>>GREENEWALD: There's a
big conspiracy out there,
which I've been attacked
with quite a few times
by the public--
which is, there's
this conspiracy
to hold the real UFO
information, that
damning evidence that, if
it was put on television,
all heck would break
loose around the globe.
And so we're part
of the conspiracy
as producers and writers-- that
we're part of the cover up.
And I'm here to tell you after
all the shows I've ever done,
I've never had somebody tell
me, oh, you can't say that.
You're going into territory--
>>NOORY: Same with me.
Same with me and the radio show.
>>GREENEWALD: As
long as you-- what
I've learned with
the executives,
the big guys that are
much smarter than me,
is that they want a good story.
And that's all they want.
They want you to
tell a good story.
Now, sometimes, producers want
to tell a very skeptical story,
and one that destroys UFO
research rather than helps it.
Sadly, that's not a
cover-up or conspiracy.
That's just ignorance on
the part of the producer,
because they just
want to destroy it.
They don't believe
in it, so that
means that no one else can,
and so they destroy it.
So that's not part
of a cover-up.
I think that's just a
producer that has an agenda.
But as long as you
tell a good story--
we've gotten some great
stories on television before--
stuff with trace evidence,
scientific facts that could not
be denied, that supported
that this UFO phenomenon was
real and quite possibly
connected to extraterrestrials.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of disclosure?
Because I keep going
at it with Gaia's
David Wilcock about disclosure.
He thinks it's going
to happen, and he's
talked about some scenarios.
They haven't occurred yet.
I don't think we're going to
get that kind of disclosure
from government.
What do you think?
>>GREENEWALD: No
argument from me.
I don't think it's
going to happen either.
You know, pop culture--
>>NOORY: It would
have by now, if--
>>GREENEWALD: I think so.
Yeah.
And in fact, I think
the shroud of secrecy
is getting heavier in
covering everything up,
versus prepping
us for disclosure.
I don't think that
the government
is going to come clean.
And I don't think it's
for the reason we think,
where it would scare
society or panic people,
although that is a possibility.
I think the bigger possibility,
what's more plausible to
me is that the government
just doesn't have the answer.
I don't think that
there's collusion
between extraterrestrials
and the government
and that they're
working underground
in some secret base.
I think quite possibly, the US
government just has no idea,
and that we are not
superior when it comes
to an inter-galactic--
>>NOORY: Oh, far from it.
>>GREENEWALD:
--interplanetary scale,
and that we can't combat
them if they are dangerous.
I just did a show for
History Channel, which was
all about the end of the world.
And one particular scenario
they had asked me to do
was, if aliens attack,
how would they do it?
And it was a very serious,
scientific look on,
if aliens come here and
they're aggressive--
>>NOORY: Independence Day,
all over again, isn't it?
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
And you realize that
science fiction--
you know, we go to the movies
and we see those blockbusters.
But we realize,
science fiction is not
all that far off from the
truth and from reality.
And that was a blast of a show
to work on-- pardon the pun--
this alien race coming down.
But I think it reinforced
my belief in the fact
that the US government
just quite possibly
has no idea what's out there,
or no idea how to deal with it.
And that in itself is your
national security threat.
That the United States
government has never said,
we just don't have any idea--
>>NOORY: And we can't stop it.
>>GREENEWALD: --and we
can't stop it, right?
That would create
that public panic.
>>NOORY: Physicist
Stephen Hawking says, you
ought to be very careful letting
them know that we are here.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How come?
>>GREENEWALD: Well, you
don't know their intentions.
And again, I keep
calling it my--
just the way I look at
it with the common sense
way, which is--
OK, instead of thinking
like this with the universe,
think like this with the Earth.
And not everybody
lives in harmony.
We know that more
now than ever, where
countries want to destroy
someone else or somewhere else.
They want to wipe certain
places off the map.
And that's how I think
we have to look at this--
that if we do have a
universe teaming with life
and it is intelligent--
>>NOORY: And we
both agree we do.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, and
I think scientifically,
mathematically, we do.
That's easy.
If it's out there, chances
are, they're not all angelic,
peace-loving,
dove-releasing societies
that want to come and save us.
>>NOORY: They're like us.
>>GREENEWALD: Very much so.
>>NOORY: They
kill, they destroy.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
It's just the
nature of humanity.
You look at it from the smallest
ant in the middle of the Sahara
all the way up to the
biggest creatures on Earth--
they fight.
You know, there's
no way around it.
Intelligence does
not bring peace.
Intelligence seemingly
brings more war.
As we get smarter and our
technology gets bigger,
we have more conflict
around the world.
So I think that--
for me, anyway,
it's silly to think that an
intelligent civilization that
has a million-year head
start is going to want
to come here and save us.
I think that that's laughable.
That's so egotistical to think
that they would even care.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GREENEWALD: And
again, comparing it
on a smaller scale, if there
is an anthill being threatened
in the middle of
the Gobi Desert,
do we send the US
military to save it?
No.
And in fact, nobody
really cares.
Right?
I like ants and I would care,
but the vast majority of people
don't.
And I think that's how
we have to look at it,
on a big intergalactic scale--
that they don't come
here to save us.
It's possible that they're
coming here to survive.
For whatever reason, they're
coming here possibly to live.
Maybe they need something.
Whatever the-- you
know, fill in the blank.
But when it comes
to survival, I think
humanity would do
anything, and that
would include being aggressive.
And I think the same would be
true for alien life out there.
>>NOORY: John, our mutual
friend, Stephen Bassett,
truly thought that if
Hillary Clinton had
been elected president,
disclosure would have occurred.
I'm not so sure.
But her husband, President
Bill Clinton at the time,
had this to say about ETs.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- So then, when the
Roswell thing came up,
I knew we'd
gazillions of letters.
So I had all the Roswell
papers reviewed-- everything.
- If you saw that there
were aliens there,
would you tell us?
- Yeah.
- You would?
[APPLAUSE]
- Though I think--
look, what do we know?
We know now, we live in an
ever-expanding universe.
We know that there are
billions of stars and planets,
literally, out there, and the
universe is getting bigger.
We know from our
fancy telescopes
that just in the last two
years, more than 20 planets
have been identified outside
our solar system that
seem to be far enough away from
their suns and dense enough
that they might be able to
support some form of life.
So it makes it increasingly
less likely that we're alone.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Now, he's
not telling us
anything we don't already know.
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
No, he's not.
And in fact, Hillary--
on the same show, I believe--
had also addressed
the UFO phenomenon,
years after this clip.
And there is that speculation--
well, the Clintons
have this inherent
interest in UFOs
and that if they got back
in office with Hillary
as president, quite
possibly, that
would be the
disclosure president
that we've been looking for.
I just don't see that
happening, because there
is a wild assumption here
based on that belief,
and that wild assumption
is that the United States
president is in the know.
Now, you really have to think,
on something of this magnitude,
would the President
of the United States
even know about it at all?
>>NOORY: We think
most presidents do not
know what's going on.
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
>>NOORY: There were a few.
There were a few.
I think Richard Nixon
was one of them.
I think Eisenhower might
have known something.
But the rest of them--
I think they're
left in the dark.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
And I think the biggest
threat to national security
is being in the spotlight.
And you cannot be more in the
spotlight when you're appearing
on talk shows and you're the
president of the United States,
where cameras and people are
following you around every
single second.
>>NOORY: Plus, they
still laugh about this.
>>GREENEWALD: They
still laugh about it.
But I think there's also
something else that's
very interesting that
many people forget,
and this, kind of, ties into
when Hillary Clinton addressed
it and said that she would take
it seriously and look into it.
UFO believers, at
least some of them--
maybe a small
percentage-- doesn't
matter-- for some UFO
believers, that is
the only topic they care about.
They don't care about
North Korea or wars
in the Middle East or whatever.
They care about-- well,
if the person I vote for
is going to release UFO
information, that's the key.
It's a vote.
So if they went on there and
laughed and made fun of it,
you're going to lose a certain
percentage of society that
says, well, I believe
in UFOs, I saw a UFO,
or I watch George Noory and
listen to him every night,
and I believe.
And you're going to laugh at me?
Well, I'm not going
to vote for you.
So that's a key
piece that I think
many people are forgetting--
that they're talking
about this on a serious level.
I'm not saying they
don't care, but I'm
saying they care
about those votes
probably a little
bit more, and they
have to pander to every
belief system everywhere
to make sure that they
can get as many votes.
She needed every vote.
>>NOORY: She obviously
didn't have enough UFO votes
to push her over the top.
>>GREENEWALD: That's right.
>>NOORY: She did win
the popular vote,
but she didn't win
in the key states.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: She needed
UFO supporters
in some of those other states.
Governments don't come clean.
Are they doing it because they
think they're protecting us
and they want to prevent
a widespread panic?
What do you think the
reason is, that we
haven't gotten disclosure?
>>GREENEWALD: Well, you look
at The War of the Worlds,
when they read that
on the air, and people
thought it was serious.
I mean, granted, it was
quite a long time ago,
but regardless, society
still thinks the same way.
There was panic, and
they thought it was real.
>>NOORY: Oh, they believed it.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
And they were going out
shooting water towers,
because they thought it
was some kind of alien.
>>NOORY: Committing suicide--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: --all kinds
of horrible things.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
And even this day and age, you
look at the Heaven's Gate cult,
and you look at
those belief systems
that there's a UFO
behind a comet.
And this guy convinced a group
of people to kill themselves--
>>NOORY: Because you'll go--
>>GREENEWALD: To get a ride.
Yeah.
And so even this
day and age, there
is that that off-belief when
it comes to the UFO topic.
For whatever reason, it
attracts all kinds of people.
So I think that there is
that fear from a government--
let's just say,
the US government--
to come out and say
aliens are real.
There is intelligent
life out there.
We don't know how
to deal with it.
Whatever they might say in that
big disclosure press conference
would scare the bejeebers
out of everybody.
>>NOORY: Well, if
you listen to Dr.
David Jacobs with a very
nefarious theory of why
they're coming here and
what they're doing to us--
and we cannot stop it--
that scares the living daylights
out of a lot of people.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
Because even if they
said in disclosure,
we know aliens are real,
but that's all we know--
we've seen them light
years away from us--
>>NOORY: They've got an
incredible propulsion system.
>>GREENEWALD: Right.
Let's just say
they just gave you
that little light at the end
of the tunnel to believe.
All of a sudden, the
public will do the rest.
The public will just say,
look at the abduction stories,
I'm abducted next,
they're coming after me,
and they're going to do
strange science experiments.
So it opens up a whole new
dialogue and a whole new fear.
And all the government
did was say, well, we
think there is intelligent
life out there.
If disclosure is that
small, then the public
is just going to
fill out the rest
and that, again, is that threat.
So I think that that's one
of the main plausible reasons
that the government can't
talk about it, at least
on a serious note
where they say,
we believe alien life is out
there and it's intelligent.
We've seen it or
we know it's there.
>>NOORY: Many television
shows and movies
portray ET life, some in
a fun and whimsical way,
and some in a very
serious way as well.
My favorite of all
time was on television.
"My Favorite Martian."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- What's wrong, Officer?
- Well, I'll tell you.
This parking meter and I
have a working agreement.
When it puts up its little
red flag, I write a ticket.
You are over-parked.
- Aren't you being
a little hasty?
- If you're trying to
talk a civil servant out
of a sworn duty, you're talking
to the wrong stone wall.
- I was just trying to prevent
a miscarriage of justice.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: I love that.
That was fun.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: That was fun, but
there was a little serious tone
to that, too.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
There are some that believe that
even though that was fiction,
there are aliens
walking among us.
And although that's not--
>>NOORY: Far-fetched, isn't it?
>>GREENEWALD: Well, that's
not what I personally believe.
But I think that, again,
looking at it on a global scale,
just here on Earth, we
send spies in all the time.
If we were able to take
a spy, go back in time,
and look at the caveman days,
or go back thousands of years,
would we do it and
walk among them
and try and blend
in just to learn?
And I think we would.
Now, what's my point?
If a civilization out there
has a million-year head start
on us--
>>NOORY: Assuming growth
is at the same level.
>>GREENEWALD: --at the same
level, and scientifically,
they evolve in the same
or similar fashion.
But they don't have
any record of where
they were a million years
prior, and we are the cavemen.
What would they do?
And I think as we
reach to the stars
and we're putting
rovers here and cameras
there and new space-based
telescopes, we are watching,
because we want to learn.
And you know, as far-fetched
as that theory is
and it's not one I buy into, I
think it's definitely possible
that if there is a
civilization out there,
and they're looking
back in time at us.
And then, if they're
able to come here,
we may not be at that
intellectual level
to understand that this race
has a million-year head start.
I think there's a lot
of people that wouldn't
be able to handle that.
They might be intelligent
enough to know that and realize,
we just need to blend in,
and let's go walk among them
and learn, because that
is our written record
that we don't have on whatever
planet 60 light years away
from us.
Again, it's far-fetched,
but it sounds
like something we would do.
We're doing it all
the time, and we're
doing it right now with robots
and sending probes and so on.
But as we excel, if we
find life out there,
you better believe
we're going to go watch.
We're going to learn from it.
It'll probably be
microbial at first,
but nevertheless, that's
what we're going to do.
When we find
intelligent life, are we
going to go down and
knock them on the head
and say, hello, we're here?
Probably not.
I think we would probably
sit back, watch, and learn.
It's like those
tribes in the Amazon.
>>NOORY: Or they might
say, it's about time.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
Well, it's about time.
>>NOORY: What took you so long?
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
But when you look at the
tribes in the Amazon--
and sometimes they're sending
drones over these rain forests
that humans really
haven't gone over yet,
but yet, they find
a group of tribesmen
that have lived there
for however long,
but we had never
discovered them before.
We don't go and
communicate with them.
Right?
And I think that
that's how we have
to look at intelligent life.
Why don't we do that?
Because they have their society.
They're looking at
this drone in the sky
and throwing arrows at it.
You look at that, and
you go, how fascinating
is that, really?
Because the intelligent--
well, I shouldn't say that.
The technological
gap-- not intelligent,
but the technological gap--
between that society and this--
they think it's the gods.
In World War II, that's what
happened in some of the islands
that we put some of
our equipment on.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GREENEWALD: The
tribes on those islands
thought that they were the
gods that were bringing
this amazing equipment.
>>NOORY: Oh, I think when
you go back to Ancient Greece
and they talk about Zeus
and those kinds of gods,
I really believe
they were talking
about an extraterrestrial
presence.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
When you have that kind
of intelligence gap,
technological gap,
or scientific gap,
you can't help but get
into that godly mindset,
where-- well, this isn't a human
from a 1,000 years from now.
This has to be godly,
because we can't do this.
You know, we can't
fly in the sky.
We can't go to the moon.
You know, we're a history of
can'ts, and yet we keep doing
it.
And so I think that we
have to really consider
how we look at that
technological gap between us
and a society in the
middle of the Amazon,
versus an alien race
out there and us.
And we're closer to that
tribe in the Amazon,
versus a civilization that
has a million-year head start.
So it doesn't surprise me
that they haven't come here
and knocked us on the head
and said, we're above you
and we're watching you.
We want you to get rid
of your nuclear weapons
because we care about you.
I just don't think
that that will happen.
>>NOORY: John, of all the
documents that you've looked
at--
of all the documents
you looked at,
is there anything
there that you would
say is so compelling to
lead us into the direction
that we are being visited?
>>GREENEWALD: I wouldn't say
there's one single smoking gun.
For me, I look at
it as a big picture,
and it's just a
big puzzle to me.
And you have to put a couple
of pages and documents together
to realize that this isn't as
easily explainable as they want
us to believe, and that the
extraterrestrial presence,
whether or not it's here,
that's, kind of, one
of the only explanations left.
Because if you sit down
with a skeptic and they say,
well, you know,
so-and-so saw this UFO,
and this is what it
looks like, they'll
have their laundry
list of explanations.
And when you try
and match up those
very common skeptical
explanations for what
UFOs are--
and only use common
sense-- you don't
need to be a rocket
scientist to figure this out.
You use that whole
list and match it
up to what the
government gives you--
not leaked information,
not rumored something
on the internet,
not what some guy
told you in the
middle of Kansas.
This is stuff that
the CIA, the NSA--
fill in the acronym that
they'll give it to you.
You match those up.
Nothing makes sense from
that skeptic's list.
And I've tried.
Could this be a shooting star?
Could this be the planet Venus?
Could this be whatever,
you know, silly--
>>NOORY: Easy to rule out.
>>GREENEWALD: Rule them all out.
I mean, it's easy to
rule them all out.
So what are you left with?
The military doesn't
know what it's flying?
Well, that doesn't
make sense either.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GREENEWALD: Why would
all of these documents--
>>NOORY: And it's
not another country,
because we'd be on top of that.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
So it hasn't come out that Iran,
China, or the former Soviet
Union had aircraft in
our skies in the '70s,
and that's what it was.
No, that's never
been proven before.
So when you try and match
all those explanations up,
nothing works.
Now, even though, again,
I'm the kind of person
that needs to see to believe--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>GREENEWALD: --there is a
very short list of, well,
what are we left with?
And that
extraterrestrial presence
is, kind of, one of the
only things that make sense
and that is a threat
to national security.
Because then, that makes sense.
Why wouldn't they tell us?
And then, you start
thinking of the reasons why,
and that makes sense.
Again, the skeptic list
doesn't make sense,
because you can rule it all out.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GREENEWALD:
Extraterrestrial presence?
That's, kind of, what you're
left with, and it makes sense.
>>NOORY: In the 1960s,
we had amazing cases.
We had abduction cases--
Barney and Betty Hill.
We have landing stories--
Socorro, New Mexico,
with the police officer,
the late Lonnie
Zamora who saw things.
We have the landing
pad indentations.
We had burned-out residue.
We don't have that anymore.
What happened?
Why did those stop occurring?
>>GREENEWALD: I don't
think that they've stopped.
I think-- and I'm going to
be a negative Nancy here
for a second--
I think the internet has
largely harmed UFO research.
>>NOORY: How so?
>>GREENEWALD: And
I'm a tech geek,
and my whole life is running
a website on the internet.
But I think that it's ruined it,
because I think a lot of people
are doing nothing but
hoaxes for whatever reason.
Some want millions of hits
on their YouTube channel,
and it's muddied
the waters a lot.
>>NOORY: Or
disinformationed people?
>>GREENEWALD: It's possible.
I mean, you look at our
history with the government,
and there was a past program
that there was disinformation.
>>NOORY: A great way
to screw things up.
>>GREENEWALD: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Some disinformation
guy online all the time.
>>GREENEWALD: And
that was probably
needed for their agenda.
I don't support
that, but that was
needed for their agenda
30, 40, 50 years ago.
Sadly, this day and age, the
public does the work for them.
Because I think you've got
all those people from around
the globe that are
incredibly talented--
that's my producer
side talking--
that can do CGI and animation
that look photo-realistic--
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
>>GREENEWALD: --that
looks like moving video--
>>NOORY: It's like
Hollywood movies.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah,
exactly-- where
George Lucas would pay
hundreds of thousands
of dollars for this stuff.
And you find out it's some
kid in some former Soviet bloc
country that just put
a UFO video out there
and got 28 million hits in
a week and a half, you know?
And there's money
to be made by that,
so there is
incentive and motive.
Because some people say,
well, why would you do that?
Well, money talks.
>>NOORY: So you think these
things are still continuing?
People are being abducted--
>>GREENEWALD: I think so, yeah.
>>NOORY: --and those
cases are happening?
>>GREENEWALD: And when
you've got a 98% hoax, error,
or misidentification
rate, arguably,
where a lot of these things
can be explained away,
those 2% or whatever the
percentage is of people who--
the Lonnie Zamoras of today--
go out and see a craft in the
field, and see indentations--
>>NOORY: Or pilots reports.
>>GREENEWALD: Pilot
reports-- all of that.
The fear of ridicule is off
the charts now, because now,
the public is so saturated with
those Hollywood blockbusters--
that's fake--
hearing about a
sensationalized UFO report.
And I won't call any
of the tabloids out,
but there are British
newspapers that love
to run these types of stories.
And of course, they're
on the front page
of the website that get
millions of hits, which is what,
to a newspaper, they want.
It comes out a week and
a half, two weeks later
at some publicity
stunt, and you never
see any type of
story about that.
So they get the hits that
they want, and they move on,
and that's what you
see this day and age.
PR stunts-- you see that a lot--
hoaxes.
And the more sensational it
gets, the more press it gets.
So not to be too
negative on it, but I
think that that largely
harms the true research--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GREENEWALD: --with
people like myself
who are looking for the
Lonnie Zamoras of today,
but it also hurts the
Lonnie Zamoras of today that
are afraid to come out and say,
George, this is what I saw,
this is the photograph,
and this is this.
And your audience
will probably handle
it just fine and not
ridicule, but if they
get on some television program
or if they're lucky enough
to get a little bit
of press for it,
they're going to get
ridiculed and get laughed out
at their neighborhood.
>>NOORY: The media
years ago, John,
was a little more accepting
of these kinds of stories.
They don't seem to be
today, and I'm talking
about the general media.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah.
And again, I think it's
that the print industry has
been hurt a lot over the years.
The internet has redefined
newspapers as a whole,
and I think that
they're looking, again,
for those hits, because in
the internet digital realm
of today, hits
translates into dollars.
So people aren't
spending $0.75 or $1.25
or whatever for a
newspaper anymore.
They're going
online, and they're
flipping through their
phone, and that's
how they're getting their news.
But that's how the newspapers
are getting their money.
>>NOORY: Will the
BlackVault.com one day
get that one document, that
one document that says,
we are being visited?
>>GREENEWALD: I hope so.
I don't know.
I mean, that's under the
assumption the government would
release it.
I think if they ever do,
it might be a mistake,
and mistakes have happened.
Some I've publicized before,
which wasn't a threat
to national security--
>>NOORY: Not a mistake to do
it, but a mistake leaking it?
>>GREENEWALD: Well, yeah, they
make mistakes when they release
information, meaning--
>>NOORY: Sure.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>GREENEWALD: Back-track?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
So then, the question
is, well, what
do I do if it was a mistake?
You know, if they
sent it officially
but it was a mistake,
do I publish it or not?
And that's a whole
different show in itself.
But I just don't
think the government
will release that
type of evidence
yet, at least not anytime soon.
But what we have to do is
look at that bigger picture.
And I think that even though
we don't have that smoking-gun,
aliens are real and they're
visiting document, which we all
want, I think when you look at
all those pieces of the puzzle,
you start to realize
that that quite possibly
is what is going on.
>>NOORY: What keeps
you going, John?
>>GREENEWALD: It depends
on how I look at it.
I have a personal curiosity, so
that is one of my number ones.
The number two is the reaction
I get from the public.
And I've gotten letters
from second-, third-,
fourth-grade students
that are just,
kind of, researching
something for a small report,
all the way up into
college thesis papers,
doctorate papers on alien
life, all the way up to--
I remember a
great-great-grandmother wrote
me and told me to keep at it.
And that was an example of what
somebody at 15, growing up,
can put their mind
to accomplish--
>>NOORY: It's because
of your creed.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, and
that kind of public reaction
is awesome to me.
You know?
I mean, I give the
information away for free.
It's not subscription-based.
You don't need to pay anything.
Some of these documents,
I've waited 15--
16 years was my record.
I think it's 15--
>>NOORY: For a document?
>>GREENEWALD: --15 and a half.
15 and a half years
is a long time--
>>NOORY: That's a long wait.
A year is a long time.
>>GREENEWALD: A year is a
long time, and I'm impatient.
A week and a half,
George, is a long time.
>>NOORY: Keep doing
what you're doing, John.
>>GREENEWALD: I appreciate that.
>>NOORY: And thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>GREENEWALD: Yeah, anytime.
>>NOORY: Isn't that exciting?
An individual who literally has
devoted his life and career,
starting when he was 15,
to getting the answers to,
are we being visited
from extra-terrestrials,
from outside our solar system?
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[MUSIC PLAYING]